Hello family, Tyler here.
I wanted to take a moment to invite you to Bridgetown's 8th Annual Holy Spirit Conference, January 23rd and 24th at Portland's, Colorado.
The theme of this year's conference is going to be the healing after the healing.
We'll be exploring how the miraculous work of the Holy Spirit is often just the first step to the deeper, slower soul level healing.
Like the man-born blind in John 9, each part of us God heals only exposes a deeper part of us awaiting healing from the same God.
And the deepest healing is often the slowest kind.
We're so excited to be joined by contributors like Ruth Haley Barton, Kurt Thompson, Ken Shigamatsu, and Brooke Ligertwood.
Tickets are available now at bridgetown.church.com.
I hope you can join us.
Matthew 5 verse 48, be perfect therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.
This is the word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
My, my friends, Zach,
I told the story about losing his patience on his eight-year-old daughter because she was taking so long to put on her shoes.
Parents of children under 10, can I get a witness on this experience?
Why does it take like seven to ten reminders?
Why is shoes for a toddler like the equivalent of putting together an IKEA dresser for an adult?
How do we break through?
Anyway, as you can see, I've been there.
So Zach loses his patience on his daughter, Eden, and then raises his voice in this outsized reaction.
But he's also a good father and a follower of Jesus.
And so he quickly goes to her and says, Eden, I'm so sorry.
That's not how a daddy should speak to his daughter.
Will you please forgive me?
And she doesn't say anything back.
Just walks back inside the house, sort of concerning.
So he follows her inside and she says,
Why don't you sit down?
Okay, ma'am.
And has a seat and she says verbatim.
Daddy, it's okay.
Let's just try to do a little better next time.
And look a little bit more like Jesus by bedtime.
And that, I think, is the best definition of spiritual formation I've ever heard.
It's okay.
Don't beat yourself up.
Don't overthink it.
Don't be so hard on yourself.
Just try to be a little bit more like Jesus by bedtime because if you stack up those kind of days, like two steps forward, one step back, imperfect but earnest, fumbling and stumbling days with this one great aim to be a little bit more like Jesus by the time I lay my head down tonight.
If you stack up those kind of days over the next year or the next decade,
or the rest of your lifetime, then you're gonna end up a whole lot more like Jesus.
Be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect, Jesus said.
Slip that into the Sermon on the Mount.
So Jesus calls us to holiness, to a life that is in this world, but also entirely unrecognizable by this world because it belongs to another.
Jesus calls us to perfection, but Jesus is not a perfectionist.
That's very obvious from the company that he keeps and the way that he lives.
Spiritual formation then is not perfect order, perfect habits and perfect relationships, all of it leading to perfect flawless days.
Spiritual formation is something more like, it's okay.
Just try to do a little bit better next time and look a little bit more like Jesus by bedtime.
In Portland as it is in heaven, that is the title of our current teaching series.
It's the vision of our church.
And it is the ancient vision that Jesus gave to every last one of his apprentices just applied to this time and place.
And today we're landing the plane on this year's vision series with counter formation.
How we're deformed by the time and place we live in and what it means for us to swim against the cultural current toward life to the full.
If we're going to talk about swimming against the current, the first thing we've got to do is recognize that there is in fact a current pulling us somewhere right now.
And that means confronting our cultural obsession with control.
According to the National Institute of Health, anxiety has been climbing among both men and women in the West for three generations now.
But it spiked in 2011 when rates of moderate to severe anxiety in America rose in just five years from 18% to 34% of college age young adults.
This research was very widespread and quite well documented.
It's led to plenty of opinions and a whole lot of books, all of which center on the introduction of the smartphone and the associated stimulation and distraction common to the human psyche.
And so the thoughtful Christian response to all of this for those well versed in the way of Jesus was very obvious.
Slow down and simplify.
That's when practices like solitude and Sabbath were dusted off from the ancients and recovered in the modern church and popularized in churches like, well, this one.
And the diagnosis was correct and the need for slowing down and simplifying essential and practices like solitude and Sabbath are irreplaceable at any moment in history, but especially this one.
But that also leaves us with this puzzling question that we were very rudely confronted by
through a horrendous interruption with the dawn of 2020 came the COVID-19 pandemic.
And all of a sudden, you and I worked from home, if at all, and we stopped eating out, stopped traveling, stopped making plans and appointments, stopped going to the gym, the cafe, the salon, even the park for a lot of us, sorry to remind you.
And as the months ticked by in 2020, people slowed down.
and simplified.
People worked less, did less, bought less, the whole world started practicing Sabbath and solitude in some sense and became a lot more anxious.
Why?
Because the pandemic exposed.
that well-meaning disciples of Jesus could practice solitude and Sabbath, could simplify their possessions and slow down their pace, all while being pulled peacefully down the raging river called control.
The pandemic exposed how little control we actually have over our lives.
In the blink of an eye, we went from gallivanting around the globe on jets and tracking stocks for savvy financial investments, too.
I can't plan next spring's vacation, next year's fiscal goals, next year's strategic initiatives, next season's games, or next semester's class schedule.
I have no control over my future, and I've gotten used to a culturally assumed illusion of control.
And so in the wake of that very rude and unwelcome interruption, politicians started making predictions about the virus's severity and the proper response to it, pundits started making predictions about when life would return to normal or what a new normal would look like on the other side of this, and pastors started talking a whole lot about divine judgment, divine healing, or divine redemption.
Either God is judging the earth, or God is raging against this disease, or God is purging and purifying His church.
What are all of those?
Their attempts to name the narrative, to predict the future, to regain some sense of control.
I've lost the plot of the story I thought I was living in.
So now I'm reaching for the pen.
I'm trying to rename the narrative.
I'm grasping for the comfort of knowing where this story is going.
I'm grasping for control.
The Oxford English Dictionary defines control as the power to influence or direct people's behavior or the course of events.
The American Psychological Association defines it authority, power, or influence over events, behavior, situations, or people.
These definitions are both helpful, but they're still incomplete because control is also a feeling.
It's the word that we use to describe our sense of felt empowerment or lack thereof.
Journalist Jennifer Dukes Lee defines control as the belief, I'm safer and more secure if I'm in charge.
Is that not what
Every politician, pundit, and pastor was doing in the months of 2020, the ticked by, just reaching for and assuring others of safety by reclaiming some sense of being in charge.
And look, that shouldn't surprise us.
Control is the most ancient of deceptions.
All the way back in Eden, what unwound biblical paradise in the eternal life that God made us to live in, what lied to the serpent weave?
Does anyone remember the deception whispered in Eve's ear?
You will be like God.
And that's when a thought entered human consciousness for the first time.
Wait a minute, maybe I'm safer and more secure if I'm in charge.
That thought, well, let's just call it, what is that deception?
Might have occurred it to Eve first, but we've all followed suit every last one of us grasping for the forbidden fruit named control.
And those living in the affluent corners of the modern world, that's all of us, are being discipled, apprenticed in the way of control like no one else to ever grace this deceived world.
When you order a product online, it arrives in two days at the slowest.
When you want to watch a movie, you stream it on demand.
When you want to know what the weather is going to be like next Wednesday, you click on an app.
When you want to reduce signs of aging, you buy creams or have surgery or sit in red light therapy saunas.
When you don't like the way the school system's going or the changes in the neighborhood, you just change your zip code.
When you want macaroni, you don't plant seeds and harvest grain.
You go to the store and you select from 10 brands that are set to your precise specifications.
Oh, did you want gluten-free, nut-free, GMO-free, keto-friendly, organic, wheat-based, sprouted, dairy-free, chickpea, lentil, egg, almond, wild rice, or plant-based noodles for your toddler's dinner tonight?
Are you guys out of the pistachio noodles?
Oh, yeah, we discontinued those.
When you want to track your fitness, or your diet, or your sleep, or your steps, you click a button on your phone.
Everything is performance, improvement, and taking charge.
Everything is control.
And it's leading some of us to endless self-improvement, others to endless self-consciousness, and plenty to endless self-paralysis.
Sharon Hottie Miller in her book, The Cost of Control, says, we used to call people who promise certainty about the future of cult.
Now it's just our culture.
Control, that's the current of these waters you've been swimming in, friends.
Did you know that they were pulling you along?
Taking you somewhere?
Is it somewhere you want to go, somewhere leading to joy, to life, or to anxiety, to death?
So what happens when spiritual formation cooperates with control rather than confronts it?
Well, in the waning days of his life, just before his passing, the Christian philosopher Dallas Willard was asked, what fear he held for the future of spiritual formation in the Western church?
And this was his response.
The spiritual formation movement will degenerate into technique.
It will focus on practices, not on the soul.
There is very real danger in accepting Jesus' truth while rejecting Jesus' way.
That's what we talked about last week.
There is equal danger, though, in obsessing so much about the narrow way of Jesus that I diminish salvation and life into a technique.
Assuming these practices, if perfected, will lead me to perfection.
channeling control into the way of Jesus, pairing the serpent's deception with God's redemption, that doesn't take me to life.
The French monastic author, Jacques Philippe, writes, there is a widespread but mistaken idea that holiness is the work of human beings.
That what we need is to have a clear program of perfection set to work with courage and patience and achieve it little by little.
Holiness is not the result of a program of life we set for ourselves.
We do not have to become saints by our own power.
We have to learn to let God make us into saints.
Jesus calls us to perfection, but he does not call us to become perfectionists.
And the antidote to control is consent.
When Jesus prayed in Gethsemane, not what I will, but what you will, that's what he was doing.
He was consenting.
So what in your life at present
Are you wrestling for control over?
Your vocational future, like the promotion that you're angling for and positioning for, the change in the industry that you're weighing, or the front door you're scrambling to get your foot in, or maybe your relational future.
Like the ring that you're so tired of waiting for him to unbox or the spouse or child that you're tired of waiting to come around or the friendship or community or sense of belonging you're desperately trying to find.
Your secure future, like the bigger home, your convinced your family needs, the new school or smaller class size or different teacher, your convinced your child needs, the financial nest egg or vacation home or refinancing your convinced will make you feel safe.
What are you afraid to lose that you're anxiously trying to keep?
The friendship you can feel changing ever since she met him?
Or the body type you can feel changing ever since you turned 40?
Or the workplace you can feel changing ever since the manager reorged?
What in your life at present are you wrestling for control over?
And what would it mean for you to actively earnestly stop fighting
Instead, practicing something like, not what I will, but what you will.
What if the circumstances of your life at present, the opportunities and obligations, privileges and limitations, preferences and irritations, what if all of it is the perfect conditions through which God can shape your soul and guide you to life, if you consent to what you did not originally choose?
Saint Teresa of Lesus said, I won't content myself with merely enduring, but by a free act of my will, I decide to choose what I have not chosen.
Jacques Philippe calls consent the ultimate degree of maturity and spiritual freedom.
Gerald May summarized the entirety of the journey of spiritual maturity as a move from willfulness to willingness.
And Jesus Christ of Nazareth prayed, not what I will, but what you will.
Then on the other side of that profound act of consent, Jesus took his most willful apprentice, Peter, for a walk and said, very truly, I tell you, when you were younger, you dressed yourself and went where you wanted.
But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go.
That's on the nose, Jesus, speak for Pete.
Someone else is going to wrap you in a mock robe and crown of thorns and make you carry your own cross just as you've seen them do to me.
Jesus is saying one last time exactly what he's been telling his apprentices from the very beginning.
The way to full life and complete joy is through a cross and a tomb.
It's consent, not control.
That's where practicing the way of Jesus is leading.
Will you let him take you there?
You will be like God, said the serpent.
Control.
Apart from me, you can do nothing, said the Savior.
Consent.
Control obsesses over changing circumstances forever planning a day that's more ideal than today.
A future where my finances are finally in order or my
Children are finally happy when my spouse is fulfilled or my home is roomy or when my career is more stable, when my marriage is healthier.
Control always envisions a tomorrow that is better than today, a chapter in my life that is more fulfilling than the one I'm living.
When I graduate or when I get promoted to management or when I get married, when I have children, when my children start school, when my children are out of the house, when my children come back into the house, when my children have children.
Control is always coming, but never arrives.
Consent, on the other hand, looks beneath circumstances to character.
How, oh God, who works with both the good and bad in my life for my redemption?
How might the imperfect circumstances of my life today be the perfect conditions through which you can mature me, heal me, and guide me to life?
So then,
What are the practices from the ancient way of Jesus that come back control and free me to consent?
What does a life of counter formation look like in a cultural current like the one you and I are being pulled along by?
It looks like generosity, hospitality, and confession.
You see, generosity is the practice of consent with my possessions.
Hospitality is the practice of consent with my relationships.
And confession is the practice of consent with my image.
A brief word on each one.
First, generosity.
Financial privacy is a really big deal today.
Statistics show that America is among the world's least transparent countries in terms of money, like publicizing salaries and that sort of thing.
So we are some of the world's wealthiest people and we don't want anybody knowing the details.
The norm in our culture is you don't talk about money, you just don't.
It's not polite.
Financial privacy is a really big deal today and Jesus has a lot to say about money.
In the Four Gospels, Jesus talks about money more than any topic except the Kingdom of God.
He talks about money three times more than love and seven times more than he talks about prayer.
Jesus talks about money more than heaven, hell, or eternity.
The scholarly estimate is that about 25% of Jesus' teaching is about money and possessions on some level.
Financial privacy is a big deal today, but Jesus has a lot to say about money, so if we're gonna talk about the way of Jesus at some point, we're gonna have to address the socially private, uncomfortable topic that Jesus addressed quite publicly and comfortably, your money, what you do with it, and much more importantly,
what it's doing to you.
No one can serve two masters.
Either you will hate one and love the other, or you'll be devoted to one and despise the other.
You cannot serve both God and money.
Now, most English translations read just like that.
You cannot serve both God and money, but Jesus didn't say money.
He said, mammon.
And that's a particularly loaded word.
Mammon is an Aramaic word, but the New Testament is written in Greek.
However, Mammon is one of only two Aramaic words that all the early Gospel writers universally left untranslated.
Abba and Mammon.
Those are the two Aramaic terms you will find on the pages of the Gospels.
The loaded name that Jesus used to refer to God, Abba, a term of fatherly intimacy, and the loaded name Jesus used to refer to money.
Mammon, a term of demonic power.
All the way back in the first century, the Christian church was still spreading and the gospels were being written and the teachers and bishops of the early movement concluded that Mammon couldn't be translated to money because money is a neutral term for currency.
And what Jesus had in mind was currency charged with demonic power.
Now I know, I know.
You're an enlightened Westerner who doesn't believe in that hocus pocus.
Sure.
Just hang in there for a second.
Follow Jesus' train of thought before you pass judgment on it.
Money in Jesus' imagination is more than just economic organization.
It is a way that you and I attempt to become like God to borrow a line from the serpent.
It's a forbidden fruit that we grasp for it and they deceived false sense of control.
Andy Crouch, who writes brilliantly about this in his latest book, says, the distinctive thing that money allows us, its most seductive promise, is abundance without dependence.
Mammon makes a promise to you and I that it can't keep, abundance without dependence.
Now hang on a second, a way to be like God.
to become my own provider and eliminate need, or even maybe eliminate the risk of ever being in need.
A way I say, maybe not with my mouth, but definitely with my bank account and investment portfolio and savings and possessions, I'm safer and more secure if I'm in charge.
Jesus never celebrates poverty.
Basic provision is a good thing for all people.
Jesus is 100% in alignment there.
What Jesus is acknowledging is that Mammon, when used to insulate my need from God as my provider, when used for control of some degree or another, well, that's when Mammon is more than the number on your bank account, but a binding agreement with the serpent and the garden himself.
Look, there's nothing evil about money.
There is nothing inherently shameful or noble about having a lot or a little of it.
But Mammon does have a unique pull toward devotion, and those who use money to try to master their world are in the end mastered by it.
It's worth honestly asking, when I think about the core praxis for following Jesus, like the formation and deformation of my soul, how seriously do I take the freedom or restraint
within which I want, seek, and acquire stuff.
Do I think of these things which are so common and harmless according to the American way as charged with demonic power to deform my soul unparalleled by any other force masquerading in our world as neutral?
Because if Jesus is your rabbi, his very direct teaching,
is the acquisition of wealth and possessions is not wrong in and of itself.
But it is fire you're playing with.
And as my kids prove, every time we gather around the fire pit or just light a candle, fire quickly becomes destructive for those who don't respect its power.
Biblically speaking, God's people are instructed all the way back in Exodus that a core distinguishing marker of his people should be tithing, the gift of 10% of everything that they accumulate to the temple.
Jesus, though, doesn't teach tithing.
He teaches his apprentices to practice generosity, and that means that you and I are freed from the yoke of Yahweh's 10% mandate.
You are free to decide what, how, and to whom you give.
But, and this is a very important but, every other ethic that Jesus teaches in the Sermon on the Mount follows a pattern, he always raises the bar rather than lowering it.
Jesus says, you've heard it said don't commit murder.
I say don't even call somebody a fool.
He says you've heard it said don't commit adultery.
I say don't even have a lustful thought.
You've heard it say to love your friends.
I say love your enemies.
So if that's the pattern,
It'd be pretty strange if Jesus went in the other direction when it comes to generosity, right?
If he meant for you to start giving less than 10% of your income away.
See, you and I, just by living in the greater Portland area in modern America, are statistically among the wealthiest people alive today and the wealthiest people to ever grace this planet.
To put it very bluntly, if we take that into the ethics of Jesus,
Tithing has never been felt less and generosity has never been more accessible.
Do you give away 10% of your annual income?
And look, don't be thrown off by the fact that I'm a Christian pastor asking you the question.
I'm not encouraging you to practice anything.
I don't practice myself.
And I'm not even telling you to give to this church.
I'm just asking you,
Are you giving away 10% of your annual income for the sake of the kingdom of God anywhere to anyone?
Can I just take a risk and nudge like one step further?
And I just want to ask you a question that I ask myself a whole lot at the time.
Is it easy to see a difference in the way that you relate to money in comparison to your neighbors who don't follow Jesus?
I ask myself that question because it's not hard to distinguish the downward invitation of Christ from the upward pull of the American way.
So if, when it comes to my money, I'm finding the way of Jesus to be quite congruent with the upward climb of American culture.
What does that tell me?
What if simplifying my possessions, like sharing my money and my resources, freely giving all that I've been freely given, is actually the wave consent that leads through the cross and tomb to resurrection life here and now?
So there's generosity.
And then there's hospitality, which is the practice of consent with my relationships.
The word hospitality in biblical Greek is a compound word, philos,
Phylozenian.
Phylo means love, and zenos means strangers.
Inaphobia is a psychological condition for the fear or hatred of strangers.
Hospitality is the exact opposite of that.
It is the love of the stranger.
And it shows up all over the pages of the New Testament.
It's in Romans, Hebrews, 1 Peter, and a whole bunch of other places.
The English term hospitality actually has the same linguistic root as our word hospital.
Now, a hospital is not a doctor.
It's a shelter where the healer and the hurting can meet so that healing can take place.
Hospitality is not to change people, but just to offer them space where change can take place.
Practically speaking, then, that means hospitality is the practice of hosting both the healer and the stranger together in my presence.
My wife, Kirsten,
is the most hospitable person that I have ever witnessed in my life in the biblical sense.
Now, don't get me wrong, she is great at baking bread and throwing dinner parties, but that's Western hospitality.
What she's supernaturally gifted in is seeing, welcoming, and drawing out the other, hosting both the stranger and the healer simultaneously in her presence.
That's biblical hospitality.
She just so effortlessly seems to be safe to everyone she meets, absolutely everyone, that they all end up relaxing in her presence and laughing in her presence and then sharing something really vulnerable and deep that they never intended to share with anyone in her presence.
How does she do that?
She just sees people.
She's not in a hurry, so you aren't either.
And she's not trying to accomplish anything other than be with you.
And so you relax in her presence.
And she's genuinely curious about who you are and how you became that person to be seen by another, not looked at or looked through or looked past or used, but to be just seen by a loving, hospitable gaze.
We all know what that feels like.
And sadly, how rare it is.
Kirsten just
effortlessly draws people out by her presence because she offers people space to be seen, known, and healed in that order because hospitality always unfolds in that order.
The poet and novelist Kave Akbar tells this beautiful story in one of his books about a middle-aged woman named Song who starts going to AA meetings in the church basement in New York City and her sponsor
Jan had always taken her to this diner across the street for coffee and egg sandwiches after every meeting.
And then there's this one day when she's three months sober that song has a horrible morning with her kids and then she gets a call home from school about the oldest who's acting up and she's irritated and stressed and eager to process all of it with
Janet at the diner, but there's this ragged day one newcomer that Janet invites to come with them to lunch.
And then Janet buys her coffee in a sandwich.
And the newcomer's just going on and on about herself and her problems.
And she's got this like maybe half true story about how she became a down on her luck addict.
And Song keeps trying to get a word in.
But this lady that they're probably never going to even see again is sucking all the out of the room.
And then finally, she gets up to go to the bathroom and Janet looks across the table and says, Song, I need you to listen to me.
You are not the patient today.
Bill W, the co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous, tells of this pivotal moment in his own sobriety journey when he had been working the steps and advancing in sobriety, but then the temptation to drink
came on so strong that he tried everything he could to shake it and just couldn't until right on the verge of relapse.
This crazy thought occurred to him.
I need another alcoholic.
And so he went to a meeting and he found someone to serve, and it was that.
It was seeing and welcoming, but the stranger and the healer in his presence, the calmed Bill's nerves and restored his clarity.
and the 12th of the 12th steps, which is all about hospitality to others, is a result of that encounter.
The 12th step is the result of a man in recovery, an apprentice being redeemed, hitting the ceiling of his own formation by practice, and then allowing hospitality to a stranger, lead him where he did not want to go.
Jesus to Peter on that walk on the beach.
It's Bill W at the end of his robe.
It's song at the diner.
It's the Holy Spirit to every disciple who journeys long enough on the narrow way.
You are not the patient today.
Now this is really important.
In AA, you never graduate.
You never stop working the steps.
You just climb through the steps and then you start back at step one.
Bethany, I know what you're thinking.
Brian McKnight, back at once, just flashed in my mind as well.
Homecoming dance, 1999, last song, there she is across.
Anyway, stay with me, guys, okay?
Stay focused, don't go there.
You never stop working the steps, but as you mature in your recovery, you start showing up to meetings with this motive and responsibility that, hey, I'm not the patient today.
And your sobriety increasingly depends on freely giving all that you've freely received, hospitably away to others.
At Bridgestown, we try to embody the treasures of the recovery community holistically in our church, but especially through the Bridgestown recovery community.
And I just want to say to those of you in this congregation who are in recovery, what a gift you are to the rest of us.
And what precious wisdom you have
and what stunning hospitality you extend.
According to our most recent data, 86% of this congregation has been following Jesus for 10 years or more.
So to those of you in that category of whom I am one, and so I'm also speaking to myself here, I just want to lovingly, gently, but clearly say, never stop working the practices, and
you are not the patient today.
Your ongoing formation, probably more than you think, hinges on your willingness to show up to this room with that mindset, and as you do, to begin to show up to every other room you enter with that mindset.
So there's generosity, hospitality, and then finally confession, which is the practice of consent with my image.
In 2 Corinthians 12 Paul says something absolutely nonsensical to modern culture, but absolutely essential to kingdom culture.
But Jesus said to me, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect and weakest.
Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses so that Christ's power may rest on me.
That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults and hardships and persecutions and difficulties for when I am weak, then I am strong."
Now, when I say the word confession, depending on your background, you likely picture either a booth with a priest or a gender-specific small group meeting where you are naming an ongoing struggle with sexual sobriety.
And confession includes that, both of those.
But I want to broaden that definition to boasting in my weakness.
That's the sort of confession that I have in mind.
And the variety that we are all in need of giving and receiving every time we gather.
Community is the most universal longing in today's socially fragmented world of screens and personas.
But we also struggle to create the through thick and thin community that we all want.
I mean, we can even get together with a group of people who all believe in that sort of community, commit to being those sorts of people to each other and sometimes even taste it for a time, but we struggle to maintain it.
Community, it seems, is very easy to dream and very hard to realize.
Why is that?
Because dreams are made of our collective strengths, but community is made of our collective weaknesses.
Amos, my three-year-old, is objectively the most helpless member of my family, and he is the one who undoubtedly draws out the best in the rest of us.
Hank cares for him and patiently serves him and carries him and reads to him and listens to him.
Kirsten adores him and cherishes him and endures his toddler rants and demands with tenderness and mercy.
I play with him and delight with him and laugh with him.
No one makes me smile more frequently than Amos and no one makes me take myself less seriously than Amos.
And Simon mostly fights with him, but we're believing for a miracle.
We're holding out for a miracle there.
Weakness, his personal
unfiltered weakness.
That's the magic that Amos uses to draw at the very best in the rest of us.
Weakness.
That's the magic that makes for the most tight-knit, loving communities.
Western culture is built on an efficiency mentality.
Your business, your office, your social media profile, your social circle, to some degree or another.
People are valuable or expendable based on their utility.
The strength that they bring to the efficiency machine.
Church, on the other hand, is built on a love mentality.
And if it's love that we're after, then the weak are the most valuable.
Because like little Amos in my family, they have the power to draw out the very best in the rest of us.
The weakest are the most essential least expendable members of a community that is built on love.
My grace is sufficient for you, said Jesus, for my power is made perfect in weakness.
This leads us to a very important question.
Am I willing to sometimes be the weak one?
the one who is broken, helpless in need.
Will I allow community to be built around my weakness and God's power, or will I demand a more shallow kind of community that maintains the illusion of my strength and also pushes out God's power?
So this week, as we gather together in our Bridgion communities around the table, we're gonna continue the practice of community through the daily prayer of examine.
We're gonna take an abbreviated approach to this ancient prayer, but hey, you gotta start somewhere.
So for the week ahead, we're gonna simplify the examine down to just three steps, three movements of prayer to be observed in community and then practice individually each day
each following day in the evening.
Those movements are gratitude.
So start by thanking God for every big and small gift you can possibly recount from your day.
Then review.
Go back through the day noting the whispers of the spirit you missed and those you responded to particularly pay attention for who you saw and welcomed hospitably and those you might have looked past.
And then third, confess, name any and every way you fell short today, receiving the forgiveness that he freely gives, a forgiveness that is mysteriously but certainly even more powerful to shape and redeem you than perfection.
So how is that supposed to counterform me?
How is that supposed to strengthen me to swim against the current of control?
Because generosity is the overflow of gratitude.
It is very hard to not feel rich when I am savoring the abundance I have rather than focusing on what I lack.
And because hospitality begins with seeing, and as I practice recognizing God braided through my day in hindsight, I become more attentive to God in the present moment.
And lastly, because bringing my weakness to community is the overflow of bringing my confession to God.
When I learn the power of bringing my weakness to God, I gain the strength and conviction to show the same to others.
Generosity is the overflow of gratitude, hospitality,
is the overflow of reviewing my day with God and weakness is the overflow of confession.
Be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Jesus calls us to perfection, but Jesus is not a perfectionist.
Jesus calls us to perfection, but Jesus does not call us to become perfectionist.
How then do we arrive where Jesus calls us?
Daddy, it's okay.
Just try to do a little bit better next time and be a little bit more like Jesus by bedtime.
That's how.
Spiritual formation is not a quick fix.
It's not a self-deprecating war against your humanity or a personal training program to get the results you want.
It's not code language for narcissistic wellness just cloaked in the veil of spirituality.
It is the decision and aim.
I'm gonna order my life in such a way to try to look a little bit more like Jesus by the time I lay my head on the pillow tonight.
Because if I do that for a year or a couple of years,
or a decade or maybe even for decades.
You know what happens?
I slowly, subtly grow into a person who looks a whole lot more like Jesus.
Let's stand and respond together.
Thanks for joining the Bridgestown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit bridgestown.church.com.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgestown Church and to our ministry, you can do that at bridgestown.church.gov.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.